# Enlightenment Map: Analysis

## Literary Breakdown

When Kant defines Enlightenment as “mankind’s exit from self-incurred immaturity” (Kant 58), his intention is for the audience to use their own personal knowledge of growth and maturity to better understand the movement as a whole. He writes in a period of time heavily characterized by political uprising and individualism. The unknown, whether as a physical location or new body of government, was a seductive subject, allowing those with passionate imaginations to guide their followers into new ways of thinking and empowerment. Using modern technology and map data, we can pull apart Voltaire’s _Candide_, Defoe’s _Robinson Crusoe_, and Equiano’s _The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano_ to visualize the change in tone which takes place when describing exotic spaces, which unlocks a better understanding of the Enlightenment’s exploratory obsession.

### Crusose & Equiano

For the average European, the untamed Western Hemisphere appeared as a magical place, where locations (whether real or imaginary) could inspire hopes of economic flourishing and self-discovery. When describing Robinson Crusoe as the “Everyman,” authors concede that he stands as an exemplary Enlightenment figure, one who breaks away from his world to discover and domesticate the unknown in his image. The untamed island is both frightening and appetizing to Crusoe, as evidenced in the language he uses when describing, “my reign, or my captivity, whichever you please” and later elaborates that he is “eager to view the circumference of my little kingdom” (Defoe 129 & 114). Exotic locations (whether real or fake), provide excitement and inspiration for readers. Throughout Europe, explorers and merchants left for the new world to aim for fortune or happiness, so Crusoe’s thought process is familiar. With this relatability established, we can connect with characters like Crusoe and Equiano much easier.

Equiano’s average reader likely hasn’t seen half the world he has, and can hardly understand the experiences of slavery, but when our protagonist grows into a knowledge of European culture, he becomes easier to sympathize with. He describes his relationship with Robert King, “By his kind treatment I did at last endeavour to compose myself; and with fortitude, though moneyless, determined to face whatever fate had decreed for me. Mr. King soon asked me what I could do; and at the same time said he did not mean to treat me as a common slave” (Equiano, 195). By identifying with the slave who appears to be above the rest, Equiano’s audience is no longer just tied to the adventure story, but now also emotionally connected to his struggle through servitude.

### Points of Interest

By viewing the instances where authors describe locations through the modern idea of a “check-in,” we can plot the latitude and longitude of each location and give some information on the various spots around the globe where we see these works take place. While the passages describing non-European checkpoints reveal their more obvious sentiments about the new world, some of the more exciting data to observe is in the crossing of paths. For one, we can fairly estimate that the Northern Coast of South America is cursed, as this is where Candide loses his spoils from El Dorado, Crusoe is shipwrecked, and Equiano’s ship is hit by a terrible storm just outside Grenada.

London is another point of interest, as all three characters pass through, but only one enjoys his stay. For Crusoe, London is the point of departure; taking him away from the world he can’t stand and into the arms of the wild. Upon return to England, his style loses its passion, since he now views himself as, “perfect a stranger to all the world as if I had never been known there.” (Defoe 270). Candide also makes an effort to avoid London on his return voyage, although his fears spawn from fear for his life should he associate with a Captain who went missing in action. Equiano, by contrast, views London as the headquarters for his later-life education and freedom. It is here where he works for Dr. Irving, marries Susanna Cullen, and passes away.

The only other location where all three characters seem to cross paths is Portugal, but Equiano and Candide have a radically different experience there than Crusoe. When Equiano is aboard a ship near the coast of Portugal, he witnesses “the Ocean blow up, with a most dreadful explosion. I never beheld a more awful scene” (Equiano, 148). Candide has a similar experience of horror in Lisbon, witnessing the aftermath of the great earthquake of 1755, followed shortly thereafter by the execution of his dear friend Pangloss. Crusoe, on the other hand, has arguably the most pleasant moment of his narrative happen in Portugal. His old friend, the Portuguese Captain, informs him of his net worth after his return from exile. I’d argue that the three episodes in Portugal could stand as representations for each of their respective works: Equiano’s depicts the horrors which the Trans-Atlantic trade can bring to the world, Candide’s reflects a “best of all possible worlds” mentality even in the worst of all possible situations, and Crusoe’s demonstrates that the most important values in life are balancing your budget.

### Satire & Wrap-up

Knowing that the average reader is exposed to adventure stories and faraway places, Voltaire utilizes the style to satirize his contemporaries. While both he and Defoe describe utopias, Defoe’s is characterized by peace coupled with light suspension of disbelief; whereas Voltaire’s is a glamorous and unbelievable spectacle. If we understand satire to be an exaggeration of the context in which it's created, then Candide opens our window of understanding even more. While Voltaire is exaggerating, he's pulling the farce from a serious behavior he views in the communities around him. Candide reflects his society’s view when he blatantly states, “It is evident that one must travel,” (Voltaire, 86). While his main target is the Leibnizian philosophy, Voltaire doesn't hold back when criticizing the popular genre of his time.

This data analysis acts as a tool for developing engaging conclusions about popular locations and their perceptions during the Enlightenment age. Based on the language these authors use and the frequency with which their characters visit the new world, we’re able to clearly visualize the American fever which overtook Europe while these authors were active. Humanity’s innate desire for discovery plays a big part in making these works relatable, and using modern technology only helps to keep the window open for fun and informative connections.

## Technical Breakdown

I figured the best way to illustrate the analysis I was going to make would be through an interactive map of the world. I didn’t just want a google map with simple pointers of how to get to A and B, I wanted to flesh out the significance of location and how author’s tone shaped it.

The first step was to find a library which was light enough to work in a web application, but robust enough that I could support interactivity. To translate into research terms, one of these virtual libraries isn’t much different than the different sections of a physical library; by containing all the books in one area, you save the time of having to scour the whole building top to bottom for resources which are relevant to your work. The best (and only) fit I found was one called jVectorMap, by a developer named Kirill Lebedev. The most attractive feature jVectorMap had to offer was the element of vector graphics. This means that a user can zoom in and the edges of different shapes will still look nice and smooth; whereas if you were to zoom a picture on a camera, it would steadily grow more blurry and pixelated the further you went.

With a steady library, I could use my knowledge of manipulating HTML elements using javascript and jQuery to plot points on the map. I then scoured each of Candide, Robinson Crusoe, and The Interesting Narrative for scenes where locations were directly referenced, and was able to pull latitude and longitude coordinates with a quick google search. The hours and hours of fun and/or insanity followed when I modified interactivity into the existing jVectorMap library to allow for information to display when a user clicks a marker.

As far as clarity and usability are concerned, I dedicated a lot of time to combining instructions into as small a space as possible, managing to get the main script which does most of the magic to just under 200 lines of code. In the link I provide to accompany this project, you will be given the option to either open up the web application and use it interactively, or view the code directly on my GitHub account and see what was written line-by-line. The link to the project itself will be hosted for quite a while, as I’ll probably show it off with some of my other projects for foreseeable future. If you have trouble accessing it for any reason, please [email me](mailto:dennis.mcdaid@nyu.edu) and I’ll make sure it’s fixed within an hour or two.


## Works Cited

* Defoe, Daniel, and Julek Heller. _Robinson Crusoe_. New York: DK Pub., 1998. Print.
* Equiano, Olaudah. _The Interesting Narrative of the Life of Olaudah Equiano_. London: n.p., 1789. Print.
* Kant, Immanuel. _Foundations of the Metaphysics of Morals, and What Is Enlightenment?_ New York: Liberal Arts, 1959. Print.
* Voltaire. _Candide_. New York: Dover Publications, 1991. Print.
